---
path: '/words/getting-a-day-job'
date: '2018-12-03'
title: 'Getting a Day Job'
---

After 4 months without a full time job, I'm happy to starting as a Frontend Engineer with Best Buy Corporate, working on BestBuy.com. This comes on the tail end of a lot of time thinking over what my next job would look like. With just shy of 3 years of experience under my belt, I've transitioned from a (mostly) self-taught developer striving to build and prove competency at every turn to feeling confident in my skills and with more of an eye on what I want to personally get out of my work. The rub for me is how music – something that's much more than a hobby for me, but also doesn't really feel like a viable full-on career option just yet – fits into that equation. It's a dilemma I've mulled over a lot lately.

As my last post mentioned, I went to [XOXO Fest](https://2018.xoxofest.com/) this past September. The inspiration I felt from those talks led me to discover older talks from past iterations of the festival on YouTube, including [this wonderful presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pyseBPuyHVk&t=1slink) Frank Chimero from 2016. As a freelance designer himself, Frank had a lot of thoughts to share regarding making a living from your craft. The short conclusion? It's not always what it's cracked up to be. In fact, if you're not careful, it can actively be harmful to the acts of creation artists should relish.

<<Insert more notes on Frank's talk after I rewatch it>>

Frank's point about separating financial wellbeing from creative pursuits really resonated with me. As I see both close friends and many other relative aquaintances who are 100% committed to jobs related in some way to their craft, the everyday reality isn't always the same as my rosy-tinted view of it. Austin Kleon's [_Steal Like An Artist_](https://austinkleon.com/steal/) is a tiny book that serves as one type of artist's manifesto, arranged in the form of 10 principles. Nested under the principle "Be Boring," there's a section entitled "Keep Your Day Job".

> The worst thing a day job does is take time away from you, but it makes up for that by giving you a daily routine in which you an schedule a regular time for your creative pursuits. _Establishing and keeping a routine can be even more important than having a lot of time._ Inertia is the death of creativity. You have to stay in the groove. When you get out of the groove, you start to dread the work, because you know it's going to suck for a while — it's going to suck until you get back into the flow.

Now with the first real stretch of unemployment in my adult life, I can see the ups and downs both sides entail. Upon the start of my suddenly-infinite freetime, I felt a burst of motivation and energy. _Here's all the time to write new music and practice that I was hoping for!_ As many a creator can relate to, sometimes a blank slate is the worst impetus for creation. While it was nice practicing whenever I wanted, working out in the middle of the day, or working on whatever I found myself most motivated to do, I found the complete absence of outside structure difficult. There were definitely some productive days, but it didn't result in the torrent of creative growth and output I fancifully thought would occur. A 9 to 5 wasn't my first choice, but it forces me to timebox my days in a way that's helping grow the discipline I lacked these past few months.
